Meet Petey. Petey gets your data out of PDFs and into formats that you can actually work with. It formats weird tables into easy-to-analyze CSV documents. It can even answer questions about what's in your data. It's free to use, beyond a neglible hit to your OpenAI or Anthropic account.


WHY PETEY?

PDFS ARE AWFUL
The PDF format was designed to look identical on any screen or printer. It was format and technology agnostic, a univeresal container for the printed page. But all that mattered was its visual presentation. As long as it rendered correctly, the internal representation didn't matter.

And so if you open up a PDF, what you will see if often chaotic. It is just a bunch of items -- words, characters, shapes, images -- and their coordinates, with little or no regard for the relationship between anything. What reads as one cohesive line of text could be three groups of words that happened to be positioned sequentially with the same y-value. You have probably experienced this if you have ever tried to select text in a PDF and find yourself highlighting disconnected words on four different lines.

The PDF format improved drastically over time, as most paperwork went fully digital. Now you can download a PDF, fill it out and send it back complete with a legally binding signature. But that is cold comfort to anyone trying to work with a tranche of scanned documents from 1998.


AI IS POWERFUL
A lot of hard-working folks have been developing methods and tools to get data out of PDFs for years. [TKTK] But even the best of these take a bit of technical skill to deploy, and have a learning curve for optimal use. However, AI is pretty good at filling the gaps, if not replacing the tools entirely. It turns out you don't need a particularly advanced LLM to interpret some fairly difficult PDFs.

But those models need infrastructure, and even with the magic of vibe coding, not everyone has time to teach themselves how to be an amateur ML engineer. And that's why I built Petey.


WHAT IS PETEY?
Petey is a few useful PDF-parsing tools wired together, wrapped in an interface that allows anyone to specify what they want to do in plain English. Petey is also available as a Python package for anyone who wants to build their own pipeline.

WHAT DOES PETEY NEED FROM ME?
All you need to supply is an Anthropic or OpenAI API key, your documents, and a schema file which tells Petey what to look for.

You can set your API key in the "settings" page after you log in. (The only reason Petey requires a Google login is to protect your API keys! We do not keep any of your information!)

The schema contains all your target fields, as well as the format and relevant information about each one. It also has space for "general instructions". Petey uses the schema to construct a prompt to feed the model. You can use the web interface to build your schema, and you can download and reuse your schema after you create it.


HOW DOES PETEY WORK?
Petey has two modes:

QUERY MODE: You want specific data from each document. Every field you add is a piece of information. It returns a JSON file.

TABLE MODE: You want to extract some table data from each document. Each field you add is a column in the table. It returns a CSV file.

The main difference between the two modes is the output, not the data processing. So if you have multiple documents of tabular data but each document has a "Name" field at the top, Petey will add a "Name" column with that value to every row in the table it makes for each document. It's smart like that!


WHAT ARE PETEY'S LIMITS?
For Table Mode, there is no limit. It splits every document into individual pages no matter its size. It will pull the same columns from every page and collate the pages in order. You can pass Petey one 100 page document or 20 5 page documents and it will perform exactly the same. (PROBABLY -- NEED TO FIGURE OUT METADATA PROPAGATION)

For Query Mode, Petey needs to be able to read an entire document at once and the models have maximum context windows. Performance will probably suffer over ~8 pages.

In terms of performance more generally, Petey is designed for accessibility, not for speed. The web version runs 5 documents concurrently, and smaller models run faster. Some documents may need OCR to convert images to interpretable text, which can add extra time.



